SPMD and oneAPI DBSCAN docs (#1979)
oneapi-src/oneDAL: docs/source/onedal/spmd/index.rst

.. ******************************************************************************
.. * Copyright 2021 Intel Corporation
.. *
.. * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. * You may obtain a copy of the License at
.. *
.. *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. *
.. * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. * limitations under the License.
.. *******************************************************************************/

.. _dg_spmd:

============================
Single Program Multiple Data
============================

> This section includes concepts and description of objects that support 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section includes concepts and descriptions of objects that support 
```

```suggestion
This section includes concepts and descriptions of objects that are used for
```

distributed computations using :capterm:`SPMD` model.

> #. Distributed computation using SPMD model

Reviewer: this markup is for introducing numbered lists, not clear to me why do you need a numbered list with one item here?

> In typical usage scenarios, a user provides a :capterm:`communicator` object as a first parameter of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a typical usage scenario, a user provides a :capterm:`communicator` object as a first parameter of 
```

a free function to indicate that the algorithm can process data simultaneously. All internal inter-process 

> communications at sync points required by the algorithm are hidden from the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
communications at sync points are hidden from the user.
```

.. _example_spmd_flow:

.. figure:: _static/spmd_flow.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Typical SPMD flow

  Example of SPMD Flow in oneDAL

.. _communicator_operations:

Supported Collective Operations
-------------------------------

The following collective operations are supported:

> - Bcast
>   Broadcasts data from specified process.
> 
> - Allreduce
>   Reduces data among all processes.
> 
> - Allgatherv
>   Gathers data from all processes and share the result among all processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``bcast``
  Broadcasts data from specified process.

- ``allreduce``
  Reduces data among all processes.

- ``allgatherv``
  Gathers data from all processes and shares the result among all processes.
```

does this list render correctly in the output?

.. _backend_restrictions:

> Backend specific restrictions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Backend-specific restrictions
```

-----------------------------

> #. OneCCL:

Reviewer: again, this is a numbered list. is it intentional?

`OneCCL` -> `oneCCL`

Author: Done

> Allgetherv doesn't support arbitrary displacements. The result is expected to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allgetherv does not support arbitrary displacements. The result is expected to
```

Author: Fixed

be closely packed without gaps.

> #. OneMPI:

Reviewer: `OneMPI` -> `oneMPI`

Author: Done

> Collective operations don't support asynchronous executions. All the ones block the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collective operations in oneMPI do not support asynchronous executions. They block the
```

`All the ones block` -- not sure what you meant by this

.. *
.. *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. *
.. * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. * limitations under the License.
.. *******************************************************************************/

.. _dg_spmd:

============================
Single Program Multiple Data
============================

This section includes concepts and descriptions of objects that support 
distributed computations using :capterm:`SPMD` model.

Distributed computation using SPMD model
----------------------------------------

In a typical usage scenario, a user provides a :capterm:`communicator` object as a first parameter of 
a free function to indicate that the algorithm can process data simultaneously. All internal inter-process 
communications at sync points are hidden from the user.

General expectation is that input dataset is distributed among processes. Results are distributed in

> accordance with input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accordance with the input.
```

.. ******************************************************************************

> .. * Copyright 2020-2021 Intel Corporation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. * Copyright 2021 Intel Corporation
```

Author: It was just an attempt to try exact copy of license from existing file

.. *
.. * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. * You may obtain a copy of the License at
.. *
.. *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. *
.. * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. * limitations under the License.
.. *******************************************************************************/

.. _dg_spmd:

============================
Single Program Multiple Data
============================

> This section includes concepts and objects that support distributed simulation using SPMD model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section includes concepts and objects that support distributed simulation using SPMD model.
```

#. Overview

In computing, SPMD (Single Program, Multiple Data) is a technique employed to achieve parallelism.
In SPMD, multiple autonomous processors simultaneously execute the same program at independent points.

#. Algorithm computation

In typical usage scenarios, a user provides a communicator object as a first parameter of a free function
to indicate that the algorithm can process data simultaneously. All internal inter-process communications

> at sync points are hidden from the user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at sync points are hidden from the user.
```

.. _typical_spmd_flow:

.. figure:: _static/spmd_flow.png
  :width: 800
  :alt: Typical SPMD flow

  Typical of SPMD Flow in oneDAL

Key concepts
============

.. _spmd_communicator:

Communicator
------------

All collective operation between processes running simultaneously are enable
by a communicator. It is a wrapper over specific backend (transport layer).

The communicator is used to perform collective operations on data and to obtain process
rank and total count of processes.

.. _communicator_backend:

Communicator backend
--------------------

Communicator backend is a underlying implementation of SPMD communicator object.
using specific library/interface:
- OneMPI
- OneCCL

.. _communicator_operations:

Supported Collective Operations
-------------------------------

The following collective operations are supported:

- Bcast
  Broadcasts data from specified process. 

- Allreduce
  Reduces data among all processes.

- Allgatherv

>   Gather data from all processes and share the result among all processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Gathers data from all processes and share the result among all processes.
```
